# DSA-Analysis-and-Design
# What was the problem you were solving in the projects for this course?
The goal of this project was to develop a program for the academic advisors in the Computer Science department at ABCU so that they are able to load a data file of the university’s course catalog, print an alphanumerically sorted list of all courses, and search and print the course information and prerequisites for a specific course. As a developer, I analyzed different data structures to implement one that would best adapt to a growing data set.
# How did you approach the problem? Consider why data structures are important to understand.
I approached the problem by studying the time complexities and worst-case scenarios for the different operations required by the project (load, insert, search, sort, print), and comparing the results to identify which would scale best which ended up being a Binary Search Tree and loading the data file to a sorted vector.  
# How did you overcome any roadblocks you encountered while going through the activities or project?
The initial roadblock I encountered was organizing my program exactly how I designed it in my pseudocode, more specifically loading and parsing the data from the file as well as searching for a course using a given input. Through tutoring, I was guided on a simpler way to load and parse a file as well as create a placeholder for the course the user wishes to search, which allowed me to accept user input. For the rest, such as handling wrong user input or making the user input case insensitive, I was able to refer to my work in a previous course (cs 210) to refresh some of the previous ways I had learned to handle such events.
# How has your work on this project expanded your approach to designing software and developing programs?
This project and its preceding assignments gave me a fundamental understanding of the importance of not only utilizing a data algorithm but choosing the correct algorithm/s that best fits a specific problem to solve it more efficiently. This project introduced me to the core concepts of data handling and the importance of using the right tool to solve a problem.
# How has your work on this project evolved the way you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable?
Throughout my experience in the computer science program, maintainability, readability, and adaptability using OOP have been present in my writing in code that is succinctly and well-annotated as well as exhibits modularity in my programs. This project taught me how data handling impacts the user’s needed functionality for a program. In the case of this project, the user required the program to perform operations that involved searching, printing, and inserting data. In order to design a program for our client that is scalable and maintainable, I needed to consider which algorithms would require additional memory to store data for certain functions, and which time complexity would best suit a program that will need to be adapted to handle different data files.
